So we've worked with strings earlier and we know that strings we can create a string and we can just
define it by a variable and we can give a variable name.
And this is how we can actually create a string.
So this is actually a string primitive.
And javascript automatically will convert your string primitive to a String object.
But in case you want to create a string object directly.
So I'm going to actually do world hello and I'm going to show you why I did that later on.
So if you want to actually create a string object right away you can do string.
You could do new and string.
And basically what this will do.
This will create a global object that is constructor strings.
So basically allows us to create a string and then within here we can do hello world and save that.
And now let's go back out into our page and we know that we've got a we've got B and we see that the
string object we've got all of these different characters so we've got the string is actually broken
down and it looks exactly like an object.
And we've got our primitive value here.
So this is the one that we're used to working with where we would just have our typical value and when
we output it in the console then all we see is all of that value put together.
But here we see some of the characteristics that we saw earlier even when working with arrays where
we've got enough length.
We've got all of the different characters.
So basically what that means is that if I do B and let's say I wanted to select character that actually
that would be an elf.
So let's let's do six.
Not sure which one will be so this will be a W.
So I can select the characters separately and the really cool thing about it is I can do that for a
as well.
So really javascript is doing a lot behind the scenes here because it's converting those primitives
into the string objects.
So most of the time you're not going to have to define strings within this type of format to get the
ability to work with strings as objects.
So we saw that here and we can also get a length of a string.
So just as we did with an array we can find out how many characters are within that string.
So the first character in the string has the value 0.
So just like an array and the last character is just before the length.
So it's minus one off of the length and that's how we know what the last characters
index value will be.
So we can also go into a string and we can check to see if we can return back a character value at a
certain location.
So if I did something like a and I did character it basically this and we need to specify an index value.
So let's try six again so I can do character at 6 and it's actually going to return back.
The same thing as that square bracket did.
So this is actually a short format then doing character out and most of the time you're probably not
going to use character out you're just going to use the shorthand method the same way that we're just
specifying the index value with square brackets.
And just as we saw there was a lot that we can do with arrays.
There's a lot we can do with strings as well.
So we can concatenate them together.
And this is another one that we already have another solution for.
So if we can cat need it together basically it returns back.
All of that string value together and we know that if we do a plus b that's also a shorter format for
concatenating it together.
So let's go ahead and create an exercise.
So the first thing that we need to do within this exercise is have an input for string.
Then the second thing that we want to do is I have another input to guess the length of the string from
the input above and then we also need to have a button to trigger function and then let's create a function
that's actually going to check to see if the guess is correct and output the results over to the message.
So pause the video and build out all those functionality and I'll show you how to do that.
Coming up.
So if you get an opportunity to try this out.
So let's let's create what the solution is.
So first thing that we need is an input.
This is just a regular text input and from this input we're going to give it an idea so we can pick
up the value and this will be my guess.
So this is where this is actually no.
Sorry this one isn't.
Guess this would be the we'll call it my string.
So this is the string that we've entered in.
And now we're going to leave it up to the user to guess how many characters how long that string is
next let's do input and we'll do type and this one will just do a type number and we'll give it an ID
as well.
And this one is going to be called guess.
And then lastly let's do one more input and this time puts do a button and we're going to give it a
value of guess and then we'll add an On Click event.
And then this event will be check yes.
So we'll fire off check yes.
Whenever that button gets clicked.
So that takes care of those first two parts and then actually three parts.
So now we need to create a function so let's create a function and call it check guess and check.
Guess we'll do a conditional statement to check to see the length of my string and it will compare it
to the value that's a guess.
And if you got it right then it all right up here.
Correct.
And if you got it wrong then I'll tell you what the correct answer will be.
So let's add that in.
So this is a condition and we're going to use that string length value.
So we know that.
Let's set up a couple of variables and this one will take in the string value.
So you can do documents and get element by id and the ID is also my string.
So grab that value into the variable next.
Let's do my guess and this one we're going to do.
Documents Yeah element by id and this time we're going to grab the value of guests and this is of value
because it's an input.
So now we've got I guess and we've got my stream.
So next let's compare.
So we've got our condition there.
So we're going to check to see if the length is equal to my guess.
And if it is then we know we need to output something in message to do correct and otherwise we're going
to do so.
We're going to say that you were wrong it was this value.
So let's set up a variable for a message because we are going to use it twice.
We're going to just set it up as a global.
So document element by ID.
Let's grab message into there.
And now in the gaps in her HMO and this this is for message.
So the message object message in our HMO now equals.
So this is if they got it correct correct it was and then we can also add that length there as well.
So you can see we can actually see the length and otherwise.
So if they didn't guess correctly this is where we're going to use elf's.
So we know that if it was not correct then we're going to say incorrect or we can just say wrong it
was and then we'll output the value just as we did above.
So now we're ready.
Let's try this out.
Save it.
Go back out to the page.
We can clear that we can minimize this.
And let's go back out and refresh it and we should have actually labeled them.
But anyway this is going to be our strings so this one is Hello world.
And the next one is number so we're going to guess how many characters are in Hello world.
So let's say 11 and we see that it was wrong and it was undefined.
So we're having a problem there that actually we're not getting the length of that string.
So let's see what happened.
And going into the code I missed the value there so isn't actually picking up a value.
So let's go back refreshed and let's try this again.
So hello world and let's do our guests.
So 11 and we see that we were correct if we update it to 12.
We were wrong it was 11.
So remember that the space also counts as a character.
So that's where we're able to guess the different values.
So go ahead try it for yourself and make some adjustments to it and also add in longer strings and then
you can go ahead and guess the values.
Also add in spaces so if I add in some spaces at the end you can see that whenever I guess.
So that makes it a little bit more tricky because this way we're guessing and we're not always right
because we've got the spaces at the end.
So always be careful of spaces that are within your string value.